Let's stop and see and hope that it's working.
The YMCA in those days was a prominent edifice that
housed the Casey's Confectionery downstairs. It
had a few rooms which were used for meetings of some
sort, which I was never aware of. Monday and
Tuesday and Thursday and Friday nights
it was a locale for Yale practice. Yale practice
was mandatory
for all students and enforced pretty harshly by
the seniors. The time to be there was about six and
it lasted until about 720 or so.
The
band would be up on the
upper veranda, I guess you'd call it, and the
L-Eaters and the others that were going to speak
performed about midway up on the steps. The
freshmen and the sophomores would be on the walk
between the building and the front first curve.
And then the, I beg your pardon, it'd be just the
freshmen that were on the first curve. Sophomores
and juniors were half and half in the street in the
sequence. And then the seniors were behind the the
curve on the side toward the Puryear Hall. One
incident that's worth telling there is that the
live oak trees on the space between the street and
the
furrier dorm were fairly close together and if
some unsuspecting soul had the misfortune to
leave his car parked where the the out practice was
to be held why the one enough freshmen had arrived.
They literally would pick that car up and put it
over between the trees. And at the time, there were
a couple of trees that just fit a car just about
snowed. So when the owner of the car, he had to bring
the yell practices over no matter what. And then
whenever he came, he had the devil of a time getting
that thing out of there. Now, yell practices were
normally held how often? Well, during the
football season,
if it was a way game, then they were Monday,
Tuesday, Thursday, Friday. If it was a home game,
the Friday was a midnight yell practice. And was it
held in the stadium, midnight yell practice?
No.
I'll
tell you, I kind of have to hedge on that. I believe
we're going. But that's the only time. They never
got away any other time. What about Guyon Hall?
What happened at Guyon Hall? Well, it was a sort of a
formal auditorium. Of course, it wouldn't have
very many people.
Dedications or things like that were there, but
most of the students didn't, weren't really aware
of it, although that was a, it was served as a movie
theater. Did you all have movies there regularly?
For a reason or so, yeah. And was there chapel
services?
May have been, but I don't remember being there.
Can you think of, were there religious activities
related to the community that you remember? Did
many students on the weekend go to a worship
service anywhere? Well, various denominations
had
churches or I know
that
there were great football teams at A&M in your
first years tell me about those about football
season well
of course we arrived there in september of 40 with
the team being the national champions from the
year before and we we thoroughly made the most of
every opportunity we could to see the team. Of
course, you had a student activity card, which was
part of the
enrollment process, which paid for all the
athletic events, so there was no problem in going.
And of course, there were special sections for
Freshmen knew where they were to be, and the
sophomores and juniors knew where they were to be,
and seniors were always up around the 50-yard
line. Where? Were you all on the east side of Kyle
Field? Yes. And did the Corps... From the 50-yard
line north. Did the Corps march in before the game?
No, the march in was... I don't know when they
began, but it was in much more recent times. What
about halftime? What did the band do in those days?
Well, the band, of course, was always exemplary.
Was their routine similar to what it is now? Well,
the difference is they would go through a block
arrangement and in and out and cross over and so
forth, and then they would end up and
spell out the opposing team or school. They would
trail out, and they'd end up spelling out the name
of the school. And then, once that was evident to
the crowd, boy, they would evolve in under Texas
Aggies and Marshall Field. So they did Texas
Aggies, not a block T. Normally it is. Spelling
out, spelling out the, at least the home, the other
schools just spell out their own team. We always,
A&M always spell out the opponent and our Texas
Aggies.
And during those years, those pre-war years,
particularly your freshman year, were any of the
football players on the campus considered more
glamorous? or were the athletes just like
everybody else in terms of the way you felt about
them? Well, most of them lived in
Dawn 12, at least in 1940, and that way they could
kind of be there and have their own meals in Duncan
and Storm, but They were in the Corps.
In
my semester,
in the fall of 42, Errol Calley, who played Ian.
C-O-W-L-E-Y? Yeah. Errol was a great guy, and he
lived with us when he was born. In fact, I think it
must have been in the middle of 42 that the school
took out the exclusive phone for the athletes. So
Errol came to live with us, and JB Montgomery, he
was in G Battery down below us. All
right. Other groups, other student activity
groups that attracted a lot of attention, the
band, were there singing cadets then? Yes, the
singing cadets were there, and they performed.
Occasionally, I don't know what kind of schedule
it was, but their shark band was there. Was there a
student government? Oh, yeah. I'll
give
you a quick guess on
that. Yeah,
there was. There was two together. Do you remember
any major, before you and your colleagues go away
to the war, do you remember any major arguments the
students had with the administration? Any
changes y'all were trying to? The main thing was to
save our boys in June of 42. Okay. We had gone into
the war and Major General George H. Moore was
became a hero at Brigadier was O'Connor. Describe
him. Tell me about him. Well, he was a very
distinguished looking man. He had kind of thin
hair and little, uh, thinness glasses. He was, I
would say, about six foot one and weighed maybe 200
pounds. Uh, But he, in my experience, he'd always
been there. We were diving across Military Walk in
Mitchell Hall from Ross Hall, which was Bullard's
office. And we saw him fairly often. When did he go
on active duty? Well, they called him in sometime
in the spring of 42. Because he was there in the fall
of 41, the war started. He went fairly quickly. I
don't know. We generally didn't know much about
it. Because he's at Corregidor when it falls,
isn't he? Yes. All right, let's go to the war now.
When you got to A&M, the war in Europe had already
started. Did you all assume that the United States
was going to be in that war? All of us did. What did
you think... the impact was going to be on you?
Well, at that point, if you say where it started,
well, of course, the...
Let me back up to
Pearl Harbor. We all, going into the fall of 41, we
all just, it was a... more or less an unspoken fact
that we would all expect to be called in whenever
anything started. Well, in my case, a group
officer had gone down to the campus theater on
December the 7th and saw the movie and came out of
the movie. And as we did there in front of the campus
theater, right here, everyone was abuzz about the
strike at Pearl Harbor. And we were all just
shocked, nothing to do with going to our rooms. So
we all went to our rooms and hurled around our rooms
with everything. Some guys had radios if they
listened. Others, since there was only one
telephone per unit,
there wasn't much way anybody could call. So we
were there. uh there were lots of fellas and
generally there were lots of fellas that were
ready to go right then to volunteer we were all
there and we were in the middle of a sophomore year
and we were all there to see what was going on but the
word was sent around that just stay in place and
wait and see what happened. Well, there were a
number of guys that, oh, the other thing was that
you had to volunteer to get in the Navy and you had to
volunteer to get in the Air Force. And there were a
number of guys that either they had Deer Johnson,
their girlfriend, or they were flunking out, or
they were just patriots anyway. They took off the
next morning, on Monday morning, to volunteer.
But most of us were disposed to see what we were, see
what would develop.
And the word came down there too that we would stay
in school. and inducted all of us into the Enlisted
Reserve Corps. We would be there at the end until
fall. Right, and so in your case that led, that
Enlisted Corps was Army? Yes. Okay. Everything in
the school was Army. If you wanted to go to the Air
Force, Air Corps at the time, it was Army Air Force,
why you had to volunteer. So you're, correct me if
I'm wrong, I get the impression that you're saying
the leadership at A&M encouraged y'all to stay in
school and wait for advice on what to do later.
That's the military department. That's right.
And it took three or four days for that to get shaken
up. You take in my case, I desperately wanted a
degree so that if I made it through the war, I'd have
a pad to launch me on. And that's where most of us
were. We started in our class of,
we started in our class of, I believe,
By
the time we were called in May of 43, it
was 650. How did the routine on the campus change
after the war started? Well the military was a
little more rigorous. They got going with some
exercise drill. We had calisthenics in the
morning every morning. We had obstacle courses.
We had to run a two mile lap at least once a week. As
far as I'd say the military text,
what it took to understand the science, I would be
pleased. because that's more intensive than it
had been before. Right. Now, I'm assuming that
before December 7, you and your classmates
thought the probable enemy was in Europe more than
you did in the Far East. Oh, yeah. See, in fact, when
the man was sort of a forgotten entity, he backed
up. The Germans invaded Russia in 39. And then that
all evolved into the Germans then going into
Austria and then they went up into Denmark and
Norway. And then in the summer of 40, just as we were
finishing our high school, the Germans swept
through the Netherlands and Belgium and France.
Well, it looked like there was just a juggernaut
that didn't have any stopping. And we were all
sobered by that. And there had been some articles
in magazines that I'd read about how the Japanese
were moving around in the Far East. Basically, you
could say that the American public had really no
knowledge at all of the potentia of Japanese.
Everything the American public knew was that it
was a Japanese, it was a cheap imitation.
And very quickly, any Japanese military
personnel was a helmeted, I mean,
fabric-helmeted person with a ring of fur around
his face and buck teeth and black horn-rimmed
glasses. I later went to Japan looking for him
after the war was over. As the war started, what did
you and your classmates think was going to be the
result of this war? Who was going to win it? Well,
there was a lot of apprehension. I don't think we
were ever in doubt that we would eventually win it.
But there was a lot of apprehension about the
Japanese because no sooner had Pearl Harbor
happened than there became reports of some
parachute bombs floating in from the Pacific and
so forth. And there was a real apprehension that
the Japs hit Pearl Harbor as a wake-up call and they
were going to hit the West Coast. You
said that General Moore went to the Pacific. As you
all heard the news about the Philippines and
Bataan and Corregidor, describe your thoughts.
Well, it just extended the shock of Pearl Harbor.
Suddenly the Japanese are running all over the
place and taking everything. And there was very
little information coming back. What was your
impression of the leadership of the United States
at that time? Did you have confidence in it?
Yeah, we did. We didn't have any doubt of it. I think
the only examples I know out now that where there
was doubt of the American leadership. And I think
one of them was Admiral Kimmel at Pearl Harbor.
Whether he was or not, I don't know. I've been to
Pearl Harbor, and I've looked over that setup and
the whole thing.
I just, I mean, there was an oversight or a goof
there that let that happen. It would have happened
anyway, just as bad as it was. The other was in North
Africa where they canned a bunch of generals
early on. December 8th, did you hear the speech
that President Roosevelt made? Did you hear it on
the radio? Yes. Where were you? I don't know. No,
but were you in your dorm room? They didn't call the
student body together, did they? No. I don't know.
I guess I was in some sort of room. I was a sixth
grader in Fort Smith, Arkansas, and we went to the
school library, I remember. Let's see, before we
let you go away to the war, did you have a car in those
pre-war years? No. Tell me how you got back and
forth to Fort Worth normally. Well, we all
hitchhiked. Describe that routine. Well, the
Aggies in the 30s, were the only people that wore
uniforms. And the public got accustomed to that.
And the Aggies also, very few of them ever had any
transportation. So it developed that the Aggies
had a routine for hitchhiking whereby there was an
agreed upon departure point in each town up and
down the main lines of Texas. And the custom was
that the first guy there put his bag down and he hung
out his thumb. And if he didn't get out before the
next guy came, the next guy put his behind, and he
waited until the first guy was gone, and then he
moved up. And it was designed in such a way that the
public could understand that they only had to take
as many as they wanted. And of course there was
always an emphasis, it was not in any official
thing, but everybody around the campus made a
point saying you gotta be curious and you gotta be
helpful and everything. And it was very popular
among the public. Where, near the campus, where
was the departure point? Well, if you were gonna go
to, if you were gonna go north, you had to go into
Bryan and out to the whatever that crossroads is,
or the navels was. There was a crossroads with a
highway from Highway 6 going north. 21? Whatever
it is. Caldwell to Madisonville? Caldwell to
Madisonville. That was a takeoff point there. And
in those days, you could load six guys in a cab to the
quarter all the way to Bryan. All right, what if you
were going to Houston? Well, if you're going to
Houston, Highway 6 was complete past the campus.
You went out to what would be empty now. We call it
the East Gate. And you put your bag down and stand in
line. One of my experiences along that line was
that I went out there. I was exempt. in my first
year. And I had a way to get out there and get a ride.
And I was telling him, here came a guy in a red pickup
truck.
And I hopped in. I said, where are you going? I said,
Houston. He said, well, let's go. Well, that guy
took off down the road like I have never been before
or since. I couldn't even guess how fast he was
going. I was hanging on for dear life.
No conversation, just going. Finally, I said,
what you got in this thing? Is it magic glycerin?
All I could do is keep holding on until he stopped
and I could get out. During those years, about how
often did you go home? Oh,
Maybe once every two months or something like
that. From A&M to
Dallas and Fort Worth, there was one fellow in
particular, he had a station wagon and he had a
standard deal of a dollar each way. And if you got on
his list early enough, well you could go and you
could leave. This is a fellow student? And when,
all right, and so you'd go on Saturday midday?
Well, yeah, because we had Saturday classes. And
that would be, just depending, maybe we'd leave
Saturday morning or maybe we'd leave at noon
Saturday. Anyway, we'd take off up the road and we
had a place to meet in Dallas to get back together on
Sunday afternoon and he'd get his back. That was
his name on the roof. Now my roommate and his
brother had a, as a sophomore,
they had a 1941 maroon Mercury Converter for the
white top. That was about as hot as you could get.
And if his brother wasn't using it, well, I really
could. We made a few trips like that. I made some
others. Let's say on a weekend in the Bryan College
Station area, where did an Aggie undergraduate go
for a good time on Friday night and or Saturday
night?
Well, if the guy was turning the deer or run on
what's a favorite in those days, he might go down to
Fort Melbourne to Arlington and see what they had.
Tell me where that was and tell me about that,
please. It's about nine and a half, two miles south
of the present point of the campus. I've gone back
and found it these days. And I've been challenged
to do so. And it was H-Y-R-D-L-I-C-K-A,
something like that? H-R-D. H-R-D. L-I-K-A.
Right. So a good Czech name, but pronounced by the
average Aggie as hard liquors. Yeah. All right.
Was liquor legal then? No. Liquor was the closest
liquor was cost over the call rate. What did you all
buy at hard liquors? beer and some rum. Oh so
neither were were either of those legal or was that
illegal in Brazos County? Well after a while you
got where you get it. I tell you the truth I don't
know. I didn't drink in those days and didn't think
me to go with them for it. As far as you know what were
the popular brands of beer that beer drinkers
drank then?
All
right. Was it called... Was it called Whiskey
Bridge then? Okay. Say later going straight west
towards Snook and when you got into Burleson
County there was a stop over there where legally
you could buy whiskey. Okay. Describe the
Northgate area. What was over there, Northgate?
Well, as you went north from the A&M Post Office,